# Gulliver's Travels

by Carter Lavering

Genocide. If you were to commit it, would you kill only the offending race or all relatives of it as well? This is a decision that the Houyhnhnms must face in Gulliver's Travels by Jonathan Swift. In the book, Lemuel Gulliver travels to many far-away places, often by accident. In his final journey, he reaches the land of the Houyhnhnms, a race of intelligent, logical, and moral horses, and Yahoos, feral and disgusting human-like creatures. Gulliver learns to speak Houyhnhnm and becomes friends with them, while despising the Yahoos. After a little while, the Houyhnhnms decide to exterminate all of the Yahoos, and deliberate over what they should do with Gulliver. Some readers hold the position that the Houyhnhnms should keep Gulliver, and others believe that they should send him back to his own kind. The correct decision is to keep Gulliver, because the Houyhnhnms improve Gulliver's character, enhance Gulliver's life, and provide Gulliver's sustenance.

The first reason that the Houyhnhnms should keep Gulliver is that he improves as a person as a result of his contact with the Houyhnhnms. While Gulliver is with them, he is a sponge, absorbing quite a bit of their culture and worldview. In their society of fairness and wisdom, Gulliver becomes more rational and humane, forgetting how to lie. The Houyhnhnms language does not even contain a word for lies, calling them "the thing which is not". Once Gulliver returns to humanity, however, he likewise returns to his old ways.

Another reason that the Houyhnhnms should keep Gulliver is that they provide him a nicer life than he would have back with his own kind. In the book, the Houyhnhnms end up sending him back to his part of the world, and he is never again happy with humanity after life with Houyhnhnms. Gulliver's wife, child, and friends are repulsive animals to him. He brings with him the Houyhnhnms' bias against similar things: he hates the smell of regular humans but enjoys the fragrance of normal horses. Society labels him an outcast because his voice sounds more like a horse than a person and he trots rather than walks. He does not benefit from being back among humans, and neither do the people he comes into contact with.

A third reason that Gulliver should remain with the Houyhnhnms is that caring for him is not difficult. He would not be a nuisance. Contrary to his own thinking, he is not a Yahoo. He is smarter and more empathetic than the Yahoos, and he clearly adapts to the Houyhnhnm way of life. The Houyhnhnms themselves are friendly with Gulliver, like humans taking care of a dog. As far as food goes, they clearly possess enough food to feed him, unlike the tiny Lilliputians he comes into contact with in the first part of the book.

Some say that sending Gulliver back to his own kind is the right thing to do. They justify this by stating that Gulliver is too similar to the Yahoos to be allowed to stay among the Houyhnhnms when all of the Yahoos are being killed. However, Gulliver is not a Yahoo, and although he shares the same general body structure with them, his mind is obviously much more advanced. Of course, he is not as moral, upstanding, or logical as the Houyhnhnms are, but then he is not a Houyhnhnm. Another reason for sending Gulliver back is that he does not belong with the Houyhnhnms. His family misses him  and he never fully integrates with the Houyhnhnms. Despite these seemingly solid claims, going back to society disgusts him and displeases others. It is clear that the reasons for sending him back are insufficient.

In conclusion, the Houyhnhnms should keep Gulliver with them for these three reasons: Living with the Houyhnhnms improves Gulliver, gives him a better life, and does not burden the Houyhnhnms too much. Although Gulliver's family misses him, it is better to miss someone who loves you than to have someone who hates you return.
