# Jane Eyre

If someone told you to do something that you really didn't want to do, and then justified it by saying it was the Will of God, would you do it? This is one of the many dilemmas that the epynomic main character faces in Jane Eyre, written by Charlotte Bronté. Through the course of the story, Jane goes to work for Mr. Rochester. However, when she realizes she loves him, she leaves Thornwood, his estate, and roams the streets, jobless, homeless, and friendless. Two sisters and their brother take her in, nurse her back to health, and get her a job at the local school as a teacher. Eventually, St. John asks Jane to marry him and become a missionary to Africa. She refuses. Is this the right choice? Not everyone agrees. Jane should not marry St. John for three reasons, that marrying him would result in her marrying the wrong person, ignoring Rochester, and going to the wrong place.

The first reason that Jane should not marry St. John is that he is not the right spouse for her. Jane doesn't love St. John. She's not even the wife that he wants. St. John wants a woman to go with him to Africa, which Jane doesn't want to do. Additionally, it turns out that (spoilers!) St. John and Jane are cousins. St. John tries to manipulate Jane into marrying him by saying that it's God's Will, but she sees past his ruse. He's not honest, he's related to her, and he's not loved by her, which adds up to the wrong husband for Jane.

Another reason that St. John and Jane should not marry is that it would take Jane away from Rochester. Rochester and Jane love each other. When Jane leaves, Rochester is devastated, and becomes a bit of a recluse. Not until Jane comes back and reconciles with him does he regain some of his zest for life and will to live. Obviously, this is imperative to his well-being, so Jane must go back to him and apologize for leaving him.

The final reason that Jane and St. John should not marry is that Africa is not the right place for Jane to be. God doesn't call her to Africa, St. John does. If God really wants her to be in Africa preaching the Gospel, he would have told her, and not used the overzealous St. John as the only medium. Additionally, Jane's skillset, namely teaching, speaking French, governessing, and housekeeping, is not suited at all for missionary voyages. If Jane was called to be a missionary, she would most likely go to France, not Africa.

Some believe that Jane should marry St. John. One of the reasons they think this is that being a missionary is good. It brings more people to God, and it pleases Him. However, being a missionary to Africa, the sole purpose of marrying St. John, does not work for her, as she's a relatively ladylike, French-speaking governess. Another reason that some say that she should marry St. John is that it could be the Will of God. St. John seems zealous enough, and could be a legitimate medium for God to tell Jane of her calling. However, if it was really God's Will, He would turn Jane towards the idea. The opposition's arguments cannot justify Jane marrying someone with unrealistic expectations of her and who doesn't even love her.

In conclusion, Jane should not marry St. John for these reasons: St. John is not the right husband for her, Rochester needs her, and a missionary in Africa is not the right occupation for her. This matters to Adele, the young French girl who lives at Thornfield, because Jane is her governess whom she loves and if Jane went to Africa they would never see each other again. Additionally, Jane would never be happy in a foreign country that she doesn't know the language of married to a man that she doesn't love doing work she wasn't cut out for. Contrary to St. John's claims, him and Jane are not a match made in heaven.
